---
title: "Bash Scripting"
date: 2024-01-02
---
EAVS: Edge-assisted Adaptive Video Streaming with Fine-grained Serverless Pipelines
Summary:
Paper proposes EAVS which is an Edge-assisted Adaptive Video Streaming with Serverless pipelines, which enhances QoE for real time video streaming. It focuses on optimizing video streaming services using serverless computing which has benefits like fine-grained management and parallel computing structures. The proposed technique uses a DRL algorithm based on PPO (Proximal Policy Optimization) for ABR decisions. EAV follows a chunk level optimization technique & it was tested on real-world network traces where it outperforms existing solutions in QoE and latency especially on 4G and 5G network. The system comprises clients, edges, and cloud servers where streaming services flow from clients to edges servers resulting in reduced transmission latency through geo-distributed cloud servers. The fine-grained serverless video streaming pipeline is designed for managing concurrent ABR events where edge handles functions such as client requests and available bandwidth. The design is based on principle asynchronous function invocations & dynamic tuning of serverless functions to achieve better results. Pseudo-siamese architecture is used in PPO based ABR backed by RL and trinal-clip PPO algorithms for bitrate adaptation decisions. The QoE metrics are based on bitrate, stall time & smoothness penalties which is integrated along with training of PPO. FCC and Lumos5G; 4G & 5G network conditions datasets formatted with Mahimahi are used. Videos from YouTube are used for evaluation. Each video is split into fixed-length chunks and encoded at five different bitrate levels using the FFmpeg. EAVs is compared with Fugu,A3C, NEIVA, QFlow for evaluation and achieves better metrics compared to all of them in most scenarios.  

Strength:
Paper claims to be the first to implement an edge-assisted ABR video streaming system with fine-grained serverless pipelines and tested as a prototype in a real-world environment. 5G traces exhibit higher throughput, resulting in a 53.8% higher average video chunk bitrate depicted by Fig 8. The proposed EAVS outperforms other algorithms, achieving a bitrate improvement of about 9.1%-42.7%. EAVS manages buffer occupancy intelligently and demonstrates better  video quality and stall rate tradeoff on fixed buffer sizes ensuring smooth playback.  EAVS, with edge-assisted serverless video pipelines, significantly reduces average response latency by up to 60.2% maintaining stable execution time. Overally, EAVs provide higher QoE in dynamic networks compared to other systems.
Weakness:
There aren't many setbacks or drawbacks of EAVS mentioned in the paper, there are a lot of services and DL techniques discussed which can cause an overhead during deployment especially will need esports to maintain it. Training of PPO-based ABR to keep the model updated can have computational overhead. System large scale scalability is still a question. 

Applicability to practice:
Transforming the already existing cloud based services to follow a serverless approach can be complex especially migration can take a long time; so more research on integration of this in existing video streaming CDNs can be helpful.

Comments for improvement:
This can be a groundwork for future innovations, especially integration of EAVS to existing video streaming platforms can be a big milestone.
EnDASH-5G: Improving UE Energy Efficiency Through Network Aware Video Streaming Over 5G
Summary: 
The research paper proposes EnDASH-5G which is a wrapper on top of DASH-based ABR streaming algorithms solving the challenge of energy-efficient ABR streaming. It is based on video data downloads that sync with the network's condition to optimize both QoE and device battery life in 5G mmWave networks by using a transfer learning approach for throughput prediction mechanism for 5G networks, it uses DRL to dynamically adjust playback buffer length & bitrate which reduces 30.5% maximum energy consumption compared to existing ABRs. The paper provides a strong basis why it is important to have energy-efficient video streaming algorithms and what makes this problem relevant and the need for cross-layer integration between streaming applications and the underlying network to achieve both QoE and device energy efficiency. The paper discusses the Radio Resource Control (RRC) state machine which manages energy in 5G New Radio (NR) User Equipments (UEs) & discusses how RRC connected inactive states in 5G  manages plane latency and energy consumption during state transitions. Author underwent a pilot study which  indicated a trade-off between throughput, buffer length, and energy consumption & network parameters on the video streaming in 5G mmWave networks through multiple simulations. EnDASH-5G is based on 3 important decision engines which are throughput prediction, buffer length decision, and bitrate decision, it emphasizes on optimal fetching of video chunks & dynamic playback buffer tuning based on good channel/network conditions to reduce connected state dwell time which saves energy.Throughput Prediction Engine uses RNN with Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) cells to predict average UE throughput. Bitrate Decision Engine uses A3C RL-based deep neural network for bitrate prediction. All these are implemented on a certain fixed time-slot & training was done on real-world 5G datasets. EnDASH-5G was evaluated & compared with ABR algorithms: BOLA, FMPC & RMPC, and Pensieve.

Strength:
EnDASH-5G reduces energy consumption by 30.5% compared to Pensieve in 5G-mmWave networks and the tradeoff is just 4.17% reduction in QoE which is acceptable. There is a subtle gain in video playback time while implementing EnDASH-5G, providing 42 seconds of extra playback time compared to RMPC algorithm which suggests extra battery backup. Achieves high throughput prediction with R2 score of 82.17%.

Weakness:
It is energy efficient but can decrease the QoE with minimal value. Certain QoE fluctuation can result in larger and more visible scenarios especially when the environment is dynamic so that’s a thing to keep in mind. Adaptive tuning of bufferlength can result in lower QoE especially in fluctuating network condition

Applicability to practice:
Can be used in 5G mobile video streaming apps. Can also be embedded out of the box with the device. Can be implemented to streaming servers but more research is required. Can be integrated with surveillance cameras.

Comments for improvement:
More testing beyond 5G networks will make it more robust and more devices could use it. More research is required if users could tune the energy consumption to increase QoE.
